PN35

>> Presents direct electrification : replacing conventional fuel based heating with heat pump
the simple replacement of heating using electricity is inefficient > focus on the implementation of heat-pumps to facilitate process heat integration.
>> Indirect electrification : replacing feedstock with H2 (generated from electrolysis of H2O) + carbon captured CO2 instead of fossil fuel feedstock
>> Combined direct and indirect electrification


Relevant assumptions
(2) All the CO2 feedstock is obtained via carbon capture from a flue gas source with conditions
(3) Energy from process flare is excluded from heat integration. 
(4) Multiple heat-pump implementation is not considered because its complexity (and thus its cost)
significantly outweighs the potential benefit. 
(5) The compressors modelled in process simulation are assumed to be isentropic with an efficiency of
75%. 
(6) All mechanical work for both process and heat-pump compression is powered by electricity only. 
(7) The TFCC calculation only considers main equipment cost (excluding heat-pumps and other auxiliary units). 
(8) The price of electricity in the financial analysis is considered as an exogenous
factor. However it is assumed to be 18 €/MWh in the base scenario
of the sensitivity test. IMPORTANT!! 
(9) Both environmental and financial assessments do
not consider infrastructure construction and its potential impact.

\\Cons
1. electricity generation and transmission involve substantial energy losses and thus its application as a
heat source in chemical industry is less efficient than onsite combustion from an energy efficiency point of view.
2. electricity consumption is increased from 14.2 to 604.1MW due to feedstock (hydrogen) synthesis. (Indirect electrification)
3. the synthesis of MeOH through hydrogenation requires a large excess of H2.
4. Cost of extraction of energy in electrolysis of H2O, although no feed cost as opposed to natural gas (no energy extraction cost, but high value feed).


Results
1. The direct electrification for the base case scenario (S1)
can only substitute 7.8% of its total heating at an additional electricity
consumption of 1.6 MW, both values are insignificant.
\\Although the reduction is insignificant (reduced from 92.1MW
in S1 to 85.1MW in S3), the fired heat requirement is completely eliminated in S3 leaving only low-grade heating demand

2. A significant increase in electricity demand (from 14.2MW in S1 to 579.8MW in S3) can
be observed, which is attributed to the H2 production in the CO2 hydrogenation
plant (accounting for 94% of the total electricity consumption in S3)
3. The reduction in heating (and thus a trend in achieving an almost fully electrified process) is of special interest
as it facilitates the implementation and management of RES in chemical production
4. Although the direct electrification (S1 vs. S2) is insignificant
it has the advantage of a straightforward implementation. On the contrary,
the indirect electrification strategy requires a new flowsheet design and
thus is not applicable to existing chemical plants.

//Key points//
(1) modification of current industrial processes may have an insignificant impact
on energy transition, and thus new process designs should be explored
instead. 
(2) Energy policies should plan for a significant increase
in power demand. From our analysis, the fully electrified MeOH pro
duction consumes 6 – 7 times more energy than the traditional fossil
based process. 
(3) Renewable power deployment has to be accelerated
in the near future and in tandem with the progress in electrification
ensuring that increased electricity demand will be met by zero-carbon
resources.


